20250123

J

Her name is J, and she was the first night caregiver who we hired to watch over my mother during her sleeping hours.  My family is very fortunate to have her help for nearly a year.  From J, I learned many inspiring lessons on living.  

She is a Filipino lady in her 40s who grew up in the East Bay.  My memory is poor, but I recall that her mother had passed away during delivery or when J was very young.   Either way, she was raised by her father.  From what I can infer, her father was a reasonably good man who did his best and did maintain a genuine connection with J.   Often, before her shift starts at my parents’ house, she would sit in her car on the driveway, doing online chat with her father who had retired back to the Philippines after J had grown up.  

J is a single mother, like all the caregiver candidates that the agency found for us.  She had two grown sons with whom she proudly (and rightly so) proclaimed shared mutual and unconditional love.  From I can infer, J was a teenage mother who likely did not get the opportunity to attend college.  As such, she worked very hard to raise her boys on her own, taking up multiple jobs at a time.   Before her shift watching over my mom, she has another temporary gig working second shift at a factory.    Despite being so busy, J does her best to spent quality time with her kids.  During the months she cared for my mother, all the weekends and holidays, she would do things with them: camping trips, road trips, picnics, etc.  

The first lesson I learned from J is to always carry a can do attitude.  Whenever I comment about her challenging work situation, J always respond with “It’s easy!  If I couldn’t handle it, then I would not be doing it” (an exact quote from J).   One example is the challenge of watching my mother, who is paraplegic and has dementia and an awful bedsore.    J would always tell me that it is easy to care for my mother, because in a previous job as a Certified Nurse Aid at a coalescence home that had closed, she had to care for 8 patients at a time who were often in worse shape than my mother.    Without doubt, her positive attitude and perspective helped her to pull through the immense stress of working so hard.

Another lesson I learned from J, which is perhaps most insightful is  “don’t think too much and just do it” (another exact quote from J).  I don’t recall the exact context, but it was over me expressing hesitation over making a choice or taking a starting step.   Indeed, thinking too much about possible consequences and scenarios has hold me back again and again in my own life.  I am fortunate to meet J who rose above her own (and more severe) challenging situations and succeeded, merely by not thinking too much and by just doing.   

Eventually, J was able to leave behind the night caregiver role, after her factory work turned into a permanent position, allowing her a steady and higher income.   While it was sad to see her move on, it was also inspirational, as she deserved all the success that comes her way.    

