20250128

This really happened one Christmas morning a few years back. 
Referencing my computer calendar, the year must have been 2016.

I pamper my kids, and they love to have the breakfast burritos from a popular Mexican restaurant chain every Sunday morning.  So, it has been a ritual in my family every Sunday morning for me to go out and buy the breakfast burritos.  

In 2016, Christmas happened to land on a Sunday.
Without thinking ahead, I went out to do my weekly burrito hunt.  
As expected, most restaurants were closed.
I tried many locations of the Mexican restaurant chain and they were all closed, until I hit the one on A Boulevard.  
I was overjoyed and grateful as I ordered the craved burritos for my kids. 
I made a point of thanking the manager on duty for his team working hard on Christmas day.
He was quite friendly to me, and we changed the typical holiday pleasantries.

A few minutes later, as I retreated to one corner to wait for my food, a homeless lady walked in. 
She was middle aged, frail and coughing, disheveled and abashed in manner.  
Looking back with shame, I am pretty sure that I was taken aback and tried keep distance from her.
I recall she only wanted to order coffee, but the manager sternly told her that she cannot be there and asked her to leave the premise.   
There was some back and forth, but in the end, she walked out the store without the coffee, as expected.
I should have spoke up, but I was afraid to get involved.

A few minutes later, my conscience finally hit me, and I bought an extra burrito and coffee for her.  When I rushed out to find her, in the dim morning light, she was nowhere to be seen.  
So much for my Christmas spirit...

I think about this incident every once in a while, either lamenting my own failure and the coldness of human nature or to remind myself that things are never so black and white.  I thought the restaurant manager to be a hard working, helpful individual, but then when confronted with the dirty homeless lady, he inevitably do what he was hired to do: keep his restaurant clean for sake of the regular diners, as opposed to showing some compassion at the possibleexpense of losing business.
I cannot say whether he should to be commended or reprimanded, as I am not much better in the big picture.  




I 

